---
message_id: "20240525_001"
date: "25 May 2024"
title: "25 May 2024 – To the Friends Gathered in Port Moresby"
source_url: "https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/the-universal-house-of-justice/messages/20240525_001/1"
content_sha256: "dcb8fc20d964738a7fa0f778a62460587a3455eb851b3c81aa579671b3021d0d"
scraped_at: "2026-02-08T03:34:41.316437+00:00"
---
The Universal House of Justice

25 May 2024

To the Friends Gathered in Port Moresby,

Papua New Guinea, for the Dedication

of the House of Worship

Dearly loved Friends,

With hearts filled with love and abundant joy, we greet you on this auspicious occasion, the inauguration of the Ma

sh

riqu’l-A

dh

kár for Papua New Guinea. The emergence of this national House of Worship is a testimony to the rapid progress of the Faith across the country. We join you in expressing heartfelt praise and gratitude to Bahá’u’lláh, Who has showered upon you His grace throughout the history of the Cause in your land and now has blessed you with this momentous accomplishment.

The raising of a House of Worship in Papua New Guinea, this crowning achievement, has called forth your community’s resilience, resourcefulness, and determination, as demonstrated through years of strenuous labour, earnest consultation, and ardent supplication of the Almighty. Through your dedicated efforts, a sacred space has been created in which all may, in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “gather together, and, harmoniously attuned one to another, engage in prayer; with the result that out of this coming together, unity and affection shall grow and flourish in the human heart.”

Purity of heart, deep spirituality, and unshakeable faith—these attributes are inherent in the noble people of Papua New Guinea. They are the qualities that have characterized the believers in your country ever since the Faith reached your shores; they are the foundation upon which the House of Worship has been built. This physical edifice, nestled in the hills of Port Moresby that overlook the Coral Sea, has a profound spiritual significance. By welcoming all within its walls, it expresses the unity of the human race and the oneness of all religions. It weaves together the diverse peoples of this mighty nation by inviting them all to come together in service to humanity and worship of God. Indeed, souls across the country are already being stirred by these ideals. We rejoice to see how, in villages and neighbourhoods, worship and service have come to form the basis of a rich pattern of collective life wherever community-building activities are flourishing. In such places, brothers and sisters in spirit are learning together how they can contribute their share to the betterment of their communities—and beyond this, how they can provide for the material and spiritual prosperity of their whole society. May the dedication of this Temple, in the heart of your nation, inspire the emergence of many more communities aspiring to such noble aims.

Let all rejoice! For this is the moment when faith, hope, and shared purpose all converge. May the anthems of praise that are raised within this sacred space send your spirits soaring and call down blessings upon all who assemble inside.

[signed: The Universal

House

of Justice]
